  _Questions? Suggestions? Found a bug? Please 
[file an issue](https://github.com/dart-lang/build/issues) or
 [start a discussion](https://github.com/dart-lang/build/discussions)._
  
  Web compilers for [build_runner](https://pub.dev/packages/build_runner).
  
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Configuration](#configuration)

## Installation

This package is intended to be used as a [development dependency][] for users
of [`package:build`][] who want to run code in a browser. Simply add the
following to your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dev_dependencies:
  build_web_compilers:
```

## Usage

If you are using the autogenerated build script (going through
`dart run build_runner <command>` instead of handwriting a `build.dart` file),
then all you need is the `dev_dependency` listed above.

## Configuration

By default, this package uses the [Dart development compiler][] (_dartdevc_,
also known as _DDC_) to compile Dart to JavaScript. In release builds (running
the build tool with `--release`), `dart2js` is used as a compiler.

In addition to compiling to JavaScript, this package also supports compiling to
WebAssembly. Currently, `dart2wasm` needs to be enabled with builder options.
To understand the impact of these options, be aware of differences between
compiling to JavaScript and compiling to WebAssembly:

1. Dart has two compilers emitting JavaScript: `dart2js` and `dartdevc` (which
  supports incremental rebuilds but is typically only used for development).
  For both JavaScript compilers, `build_web_compilers` generates a primary
  entrypoint script and additional module files or source maps depending on
  compiler options.
2. Compiling with `dart2wasm` generates a WebAssembly module (a `.wasm` file)
   and a JavaScript module (a `.mjs` file) exporting functions to instantiate
   that module. `dart2wasm` alone generates no entrypoint file that could be
   added as a `<script>` tag.

In addition to invoking compilers, `build_web_compilers` can emit an entrypoint
file suitable for `dart2wasm`. When both `dart2wasm` and a JavaScript compiler
are enabled, the entrypoint file runs a feature detection for WasmGC and loads
either the WebAssembly module or the JavaScript file depending on what the
browser supports.

### Compiler arguments

To customize compilers, you will need to add a `build.yaml` file configuring
the `build_web_compilers:entrypoint` builder, similar to the following:

```yaml
targets:
  $default:
    builders:
      build_web_compilers:entrypoint:
        # These are globs for the entrypoints you want to compile.
        generate_for:
        - test/**.browser_test.dart
        - web/**.dart
        options:
          compilers:
            # All compilers listed here are enabled:
            dart2js:
              # List any dart2js specific args here, or omit it.
              args:
                - O2
            dart2wasm:
              args:
                - O3
```

`build_runner` runs development builds by default, but can use builders with a
different configuration for `--release` builds. For instance, if you wanted to
compile with `dartdevc` only on development and `dart2js` + `dart2wasm` for
release builds, you can use this configuration as a starting point:

```yaml
targets:
  $default:
    builders:
      build_web_compilers:entrypoint:
        generate_for:
        - test/**.browser_test.dart
        - web/**.dart
        dev_options:
          compilers:
            dartdevc:
        release_options:
          compilers:
            dart2js:
              args:
                - O2
            dart2wasm:
              args:
                - O3
```

### Customizing emitted file names

The file names emitted by `build_web_compilers` can be changed. The default
names depend on which compilers are enabled:

1. When only `dart2js` or `dartdevc` is enabled, a single `.dart.js` entrypoint
   is emitted.
2. When only `dart2wasm` is enabled, a single `.dart.js` entrypoint (loading
   a generated `.wasm` module through a `.mjs` helper file) is generated.
3. When both `dart2wasm` and a JavaScript compiler are enabled, then:
   - The output of the JavaScript compiler is named `.dart2js.js` or `.ddc.js`
     depending on the compiler.
   - `dart2wasm` continues to emit a `.wasm` and a `.mjs` file.
   - An entrypoint loader named `.dart.js` that loads the appropriate output
     depending on browser features is generated.

All names can be overridden by using the `loader` option or the `extension`
flag in compiler options:

```yaml
targets:
  $default:
    builders:
      build_web_compilers:entrypoint:
        options:
          loader: .load.js
          compilers:
            dart2js:
              extension: .old.js
            dart2wasm:
              extension: .new.mjs
```

This configuration uses both `dart2js` and `dart2wasm`, but names the final
entrypoint for a `main.dart` file `main.load.js`. That loader will either load
a `.new.mjs` file for WebAssembly or a `.old.js` for pure JavaScript.

Note that the `loader` option is ignored when `dart2wasm` is not enabled, as
it's the compiler requiring an additional loader to be emitted.

### Customizing the WebAssembly loader

In some cases, for instance when targeting Node.JS, the generated loader for
`dart2wasm` may be unsuitable. The builtin loader can be disabled by setting
the option to null:

```yaml
targets:
  $default:
    builders:
      build_web_compilers:entrypoint:
        options:
          loader: null
          compilers:
            dart2js:
            dart2wasm:
```

In this case, you need to use another builder or a predefined loader instead.

### Advanced SDK Customization

The following options allow you to customize the Dart SDK used for compiling to
js and wasm. They are intended for advanced use cases and should be used with
caution.

<details>
<summary>Expand to see configuration options.</summary>

```yaml
global_options:
  build_web_compilers:ddc:
    options:
      use-ui-libraries: false
      platform-sdk: /path/to/platform_sdk/
      ddc-kernel-path: relative/path/to/kernel_summary
      libraries-path: /path/to/libraries.json
  build_web_compilers:entrypoint:
    options:
      use-ui-libraries: false
      libraries-path: /path/to/libraries.json
  build_web_compilers:sdk_js:
    options:
      use-prebuilt-sdk-from-path: /path/to/prebuilt/sdk_js/
```
</details>

### Configuring -D environment variables

dartdevc is a modular compiler, so in order to ensure consistent builds
in every module environment variables must be configured globally. Configure
with a mapping in YAML. Environment defined variables can be read with
`const String.fromEnvironment` and `const bool.fromEnvironment`. For example:

```yaml
global_options:
  build_web_compilers:ddc:
    options:
      environment:
        SOME_VAR: some value
        ANOTHER_VAR: false
```

These may also be specified on the command line with a `--define` argument.

```sh
webdev serve -- '--define=build_web_compilers:ddc=environment={"SOME_VAR":"changed"}'
```

For dart2js, use the `args` option within the `dart2js` compiler entry. This
may be configured globally, or per target.

```yaml
targets:
  $default:
    builders:
      build_web_compilers:entrypoint:
        options:
          compilers:
            dart2js:
              args:
                - -DSOME_VAR=some value
                - -DANOTHER_VAR=true
```

To apply variables across multiple compilers, they have to be added to each
one:

```yaml
targets:
  $default:
    builders:
      build_web_compilers:entrypoint:
        options:
          compilers:
            dart2js:
              args:
                - -DSOME_VAR=some value
                - -DANOTHER_VAR=true
            dart2wasm:
              args:
                - -DSOME_VAR=some value
                - -DANOTHER_VAR=true
```

[development dependency]: https://dart.dev/tools/pub/dependencies#dev-dependencies
[Dart development compiler]: https://dart.dev/tools/dartdevc
[`package:build`]: https://pub.dev/packages/build
