*Why was support for `barback` and `Transformer` removed in Dart 2?*

There are a few key differences that make the build system better for most use
cases.

Also see
https://github.com/dart-lang/build/blob/master/docs/writing_a_builder.md

### Outputs

`pub build` will only ever output files into your `build` directory, and
`pub serve` only ever outputs them into an in-memory file system. With the
`build` package, you can output files anywhere in the current package.

This enables you to generate dart files which are imported by your project,
without getting any warnings about missing files from the analyzer. At the same
time it enables you to easily go explore those files in your editor, and set
breakpoints inside those files.

### Consistency

You can't overwrite any pre-existing files using `build`, you can only generate
new ones.

In `barback` a transformer can overwrite a file any number of times, and this
can lead to confusion and difficulty when debugging, especially with source
maps.

### Incremental builds

The `build` package requires Builders to configure which output file extensions
will be built for corresponding input file extensions. This allows fine grained
and incremental builds. See the `build_runner` package for an approach to
incremental builds.

With `barback`, some transformations on your package dependencies may be cached,
but any transformations on your current package are always redone each time you
call `pub build` or `pub serve`. In serve mode it will do incremental builds
once the first build has run, but if you restart it then you have to start over
from scratch.

### Execution modes and reflection

Most frameworks that use reflection today enable running in two different modes,
one which uses `dart:mirrors` for development in dartium, and one which uses
static code generated by a `Transformer` for deployment. All features that use
reflection have to be implemented in both modes, and bugs might exist in only
one mode. This all ends up resulting in obscure deployment time only issues,
as well as a lot of wasted cycles testing the same app in multiple different
modes.

With `build`, you can eliminate entirely the `dart:mirrors` mode. You are always
using the generated code, all the time. This makes it easier on framework devs,
and easier on users who have fewer modes to support.
